***********************************************************
           Borland Database Engine and SQL Links
                  Deployment README File
***********************************************************

This file provides information on deploying the Borland
Database Engine (BDE) and/or SQL Links. We recommend you
read the entire contents of this file prior to deploying
the BDE or SQL Links.

Availability of SQL Links is dependent on the specific
Borland development product used. For instance, SQL Links
is included with the Enterprise editions Borland
programming tools, but not the Professional editions.
Consult the documentation of the particular Borland product
used to see whether SQL Links is included.

TABLE OF CONTENTS
===========================================================
  1. INSTALLATION REQUIREMENTS
     1.1 General Requirements
     1.2 Royalties
     1.3 Limitations on Redistribution
  2. BORLAND-CERTIFIED INSTALLATION PROGRAMS
  3. BDE DEPLOYMENT
     3.1 Deploying the BDE
     3.2 BDE Redistributable Files
     3.3 Partial BDE Installs
  4. SQL LINKS DEPLOYMENT
     4.1 Deploying SQL Links
     4.2 SQL Links Redistributable Files
     4.3 Database Server Client Software
  5. BDE ADMINISTRATOR


1. INSTALLATION REQUIREMENTS
===========================================================
1.1 General Requirements
------------------------
Database applications that use the Borland Database Engine
(BDE) to effect database access require that the BDE be
deployed with the application. The BDE may be deployed in
whole or in part (see "3.3 Partial BDE Installs").
Installing only part of the BDE allows you to reduce the
disk space footprint of the BDE by providing only those
parts the application actually needs.

A database application that uses SQL Links to effect
connection with SQL databases requires that both the BDE
and SQL Links be distributed with the application. See
"4.1 Deploying SQL Links" for more information on dis-
tributing SQL Links.

When deploying the BDE or SQL Links with an application,
you must use InstallShield Express or another Borland-
certified installation program to install the BDE or SQL
Links. See "2. Certified Installation Programs" for more
information. In addition to satisfying this legal
requirement, using a certified installation program also:

  * Ensures that all Windows Registry entries required for
    proper functioning of the BDE are made.

  * Provides version checking so that a newer version of
    the BDE is not overwritten with an earlier one.
    
  * Prevents botched installs from interfering with other
    BDE-using applications, including Borland products.

1.2 Royalties
-------------
No royalties or other per-installation fees are required
for the redistribution of the BDE or SQL Links with
applications. Further, you are not limited in the number of
times the BDE and SQL Links may be redistributed.

1.3 Limitations on Redistribution
---------------------------------
The BDE and SQL Links may only be redistributed with
applications created using Borland programming tools, and
then only for the purpose of use with these applications.
See the file LICENSE.TXT file for the BDE-using Borland
programming tool used for more information.


2. BORLAND-CERTIFIED INSTALLATION PROGRAMS
===========================================================
Borland products which include redistribution rights
include an Borland-certified install program, such as
InstallShield Express, to ensure proper installation and
uninstallation of your applications so that they co-exist
well with other applications which use the Borland Database
Engine (BDE) including those created with Visual dBASE,
Paradox, Delphi, and C++Builder.

Borland has also provided BDE and SQL Links installation
information to other install vendors such as Sax Software,
WISE Software, Great Lakes Business Systems (GLBS) makers
of the WISE install tool and Eschalon Development so that
their products can also be ensured to be fully compatible
with the BDE.

From time to time, Borland Software Corporation may, 
at its discretion, certify additional installation programs 
for use as the Borland Certified Install Program for this 
product.
  
Also check the Borland-sponsored announcement newsgroups:

  news:borland.public.announce
  news:borland.public.bde


3. BDE DEPLOYMENT (ALL DATABASE APPLICATIONS)
===========================================================
3.1 Deploying the BDE
---------------------
A Borland-certified installation program provides all
needed functionality and steps for redistributing the
Borland Database Engine (BDE), including:

  * Selecting files to redistribute
  * Determining final directory locations
  * Comparing versions of BDE files
  * Creation of BDE aliases
  
Follow the instructions of the particular installation
program used for specific steps to create an installation
program that includes the BDE.

3.2 BDE Redistributable Files
-----------------------------
When creating the installation program for a BDE-using
application, Borland-certified installation programs allow
selection of only those BDE files that can be
redistributed. So the ability to select a given file is
indication that the particular file can legally be
redistributed.

BDE files that may be redistributed with an application
include those listed below. Not all files are included in
the BDE for all Borland programming tools. Not all files
are required for any given installation (see "3.3 Partial
BDE Installs").

  Core BDE Files
  --------------
  IDASCI32.DLL   For accessing ASCII files
  IDBAT32.DLL    For batch movement of data
  IDDA3532.DLL   For accessing Microsoft Access databases
  IDDAO32.DLL    For accessing Microsoft Access databases
  IDDBAS32.DLL   For accessing dBASE databases
  IDDR32.DLL     For Data Repository (Paradox only)
  IDODBC32.DLL   For BDE access to ODBC drivers
  IDPDX32.DLL    For accessing Paradox databases
  IDQBE32.DLL    QBE query engine
  IDR20009.DLL   BDE resources
  IDAPI32.DLL    Main BDE system DLL
  IDSQL32.DLL    SQL query engine (including local SQL)

  Language Driver Files
  ---------------------
  BANTAM.DLL     Internationalization engine
  *.CVB          Character set conversion files
  *.BTL          Locales
  BLW32.DLL      Expression engine

  Files for Microsoft Transaction Server (MTS)
  --------------------------------------------
  DISP.DLL       MTS dispensor DLL
  DISP.PAK

  Auxiliary Tools/Utilities
  -------------------------
  BDEADMIN.*     BDE Administrator utility
  DATAPUMP.*     Data Pump data migration tool

NOTE: For SQL Links redistributable files, see section "4.2
SQL Links Redistributable Files" below.

3.3 Partial BDE Installs
------------------------
You may optionally install only a subset of the Borland
Database Engine (BDE) with applications. This reduces the
overall size of the BDE installation as you only
redistribute the parts of the BDE an application actually
needs. For example, if the application only uses dBASE
tables, you can limit the parts of the BDE distributed to
just the BDE files that are absolutely needed for accessing
dBASE files.

A subset installation of the BDE is controlled by Install-
Shield Express (or other Borland-certified installation
program). Options during the install script design phase
guide you through a partial BDE redistribution (just as
with a full BDE install). See the on-line Help of the
particular installation program used for specific details
on defining a partial BDE redistribution using that
installation program.

You may also refer to the Borland Web site at the URL below
for further information:

  http://www.borland.com/bde

Note that since we allow deployment of BDE files and
subsets using an Borland-certified installation program, we
do not otherwise allow deployment of individual BDE files.


4. SQL LINKS DEPLOYMENT (CLIENT/SERVER APPLICATIONS)
===========================================================
4.1 Deploying SQL Links
-----------------------
A Borland-certified installation program provides all
needed functionality and steps for redistributing SQL
Links, including:

  * Selecting files to redistribute
  * Determining final directory locations
  * Comparing versions of SQL Links files
  
Follow the instructions of the particular installation
program used for specific steps to create an installation
program the includes SQL Links.

4.2 SQL Links Redistributable Files
-----------------------------------
You may redistribute the following files in accordance with
the license agreement for this product:

  Interbase
  -------------------------------------------------------
  SQLINT32.DLL    InterBase SQL Links driver
  SQL_INT.CNF     Default BDE configuration file for INT 
                  SQL Links

  For other files associated with InterBase deployment,
  consult the InterBase documentation.

  Oracle
  -------------------------------------------------------
  SQLORA32.DLL    Oracle 7 SQL Links driver
  SQL_ORA.CNF     Default BDE configuration file for ORA
                  SQL Links (Oracle 7)
  SQLORA8.DLL     Oracle 8 SQL Links driver
  SQL_ORA8.CNF    Default BDE configuration file for ORA8
                  SQL Links (Oracle 8)

  Sybase Db-Lib
  -------------------------------------------------------
  SQLSYB32.DLL    Sybase Db-Lib SQL Links driver
  SQL_SYB.CNF     Default BDE configuration file for SYB
                  Db-Lib SQL Links

  Sybase Ct-Lib
  -------------------------------------------------------
  SQLSSC32.DLL    Sybase Ct-Lib SQL Links driver
  SQL_SSC.CNF     Default BDE configuration file for SYB
                  Ct-Lib SQL Links

  Microsoft SQL Server
  -------------------------------------------------------
  SQLMSS32.DLL    Microsoft SQL Server SQL Links driver
  SQL_MSS.CNF     Default BDE configuration file for MSS
                  SQL Links

  Informix
  -------------------------------------------------------
  SQLINF32.DLL    Informix 7 SQL Links driver
  SQL_INF.CNF     Default BDE configuration file for INF
                  SQL Links (Informix 7)
  SQLINF9.DLL     Informix 9 SQL Links driver
  SQL_INF9.CNF    Default BDE configuration file for INF
                  SQL Links (Informix 9)

  DB/2
  -------------------------------------------------------
  SQLDB232.DLL    DB/2 version 2.x SQL Links driver
  SQL_DB2.CNF     Default BDE configuration file for DB/2
                  version 2.x SQL Links
  SQLDB2V5.DLL    DB/2 V5 (UDB) SQL Links driver
  SQL_DBV5.CNF    Default BDE configuration file for DB/2
                  V5 (UDB) SQL Links

NOTE: For BDE redistributable files, see section "3.2 BDE
Redistributable Files" above.

4.3 Database Server Client Software
-----------------------------------
In addition to SQL Links files, client/server applications
require client files for interface to communication proto-
cols (such as TCP/IP). These client software files are part
of the database server system, are NOT part of nor bundled
with SQL Links, and are supplied by the SQL database system
vendor. Client software comes with SQL database server
software, so if you have the database server software you
will most likely also have the client software. Refer to
your database administrator (DBA) or server documentation
for specific information on installing client software.


5. BDE ADMINISTRATOR
===========================================================
When the Borland Database Engine (BDE) is installed with a
deployed BDE-using application, the configuration utility
BDE Administrator is also installed. Its use with deployed
applications is authorized.


===========================================================
Unless otherwise noted, all materials provided in this
release are Copyright 1983 - 2002 by 
Borland Software Corporation.
========================= END =============================

